---
layout: post
title:  Liquid Filters
date: 2021-02-04 00:00:00
homepage: https://github.com/andreondra/jekyll-theme-simplex
download: https://rubygems.org/gems/jekyll-theme-simplex
demo: https://golas.blog/
author:  Filters
thumbnail: simplex.png
license: MIT License
license_link: https://github.com/andreondra/jekyll-theme-simplex/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
---
Liquid Filters
All of the standard Liquid filters are supported (see below).

To make common tasks easier, Jekyll even adds a few handy filters of its own, all of which you can find on this page. You can also create your own filters using plugins.



Relative URL

Prepend baseurl config value to the input to convert a URL path into a relative URL. This is recommended for a site that is hosted on a subpath of a domain.

{{ "/assets/style.css" | relative_url }}

/my-baseurl/assets/style.css

Absolute URL

Prepend url and baseurl values to the input to convert a URL path to an absolute URL.

{{ "/assets/style.css" | absolute_url }}

http://example.com/my-baseurl/assets/style.css

Date to XML Schema

Convert a Date into XML Schema (ISO 8601) format.

{{ site.time | date_to_xmlschema }}

2008-11-07T13:07:54-08:00


Date to RFC-822 Format

Convert a Date into the RFC-822 format used for RSS feeds.

{{ site.time | date_to_rfc822 }}

Mon, 07 Nov 2008 13:07:54 -0800

Date to String

Convert a date to short format.

{{ site.time | date_to_string }}

07 Nov 2008

Date to String in ordinal US style

Format a date to ordinal, US, short format.

{{ site.time | date_to_string: "ordinal", "US" }}

Nov 7th, 2008

Date to Long String

Format a date to long format.

{{ site.time | date_to_long_string }}

07 November 2008

Date to Long String in ordinal UK style

Format a date to ordinal, UK, long format.

{{ site.time | date_to_long_string: "ordinal" }}

7th November 2008

Where

Select all the objects in an array where the key has the given value.

{{ site.members | where:"graduation_year","2014" }

Where Expression

Select all the objects in an array where the expression is true.

{{ site.members | where_exp:"item",
"item.graduation_year == 2014" }}

{{ site.members | where_exp:"item",
"item.graduation_year < 2014" }}

{{ site.members | where_exp:"item",
"item.projects contains 'foo'" }}

